>> Steve Kinney: So as we switch
back over to our terminal, I have
the AWS Mobile CLI tool
installed globally in node.
And we can use this tool to, basically,
configure, push,
pull down publisher applications.
Basically, work with all of our
applications in AWSmobile hub.
So the first thing that you need to
do if you haven't done it already.
So we're just got to have AWSmobile and
configure.
Now, when you hit the enter key, you're
getting I'll ask the bunch of questions.
Remember when I told you
download that CSV of credentials?
It's gonna basically ask you for those.
It's like okay,
I'm ready to work with AWS.
Now, who are you?
What's going on?
I'm just a tool that you
installed off the internet.
Please log in and
tell me what you want me to do.
So in this case, once you have
all that information ready to go,
I have that offscreen because
it's going to be impossible for
me not to let that secret
slip at one point.
But generally speaking,
you want to keep your secret keys secret.
There's lots of tools out there that go
through public Github requests looking for
different keys.
That's something we have to
do deal with all the time,
which is someone publishes their secret
key and then some spammer uses it
to send 10 billion spam emails
running up that customer a huge bill.
So we try to find them first and
shut down those API keys.
It happens.
So we do AWS mobile configure, all right?
And we try it out.
And you can see it's just gonna
as you three questions and
you only need to do this once.
It's gonna ask you for
your access key, all right?
That was that first one that
wasn't hidden on that page.
So we kind of put that in.
You can see I've already logged
in once and it remembers it.
And then again, it'll ask you for
your secret key which is a slightly longer
key that you're not suppose to show on
the screen to a while bunch
of people at the same time.
Let it sit there for a second.
Cool, you want to put that one into that.
Again, if you're done with the CSP that's
the next column over or if you're still on
that page you can hit show and get that
secret key and you should be good to go.
And then finally,
what region you want to use.
It's generally speaking if you are not
sitting in the United States of America
right now, you probably want to
pick the region closest to you.
Generally speaking, you want to
If you really don't care
us-east-1 is usually a good bet.
It is, arguably, I believe it's the oldest
one, it's got the most features.
But it is also because it is kind
of the biggest and most popular,
also the most volatile.
Beyond the scope of this workshop,
is multi region.
Which is a thing, like at SunGrid, we have
the main region that we run our code and
then we have all of our code
deployed to a second region.
Replicating that database in
case one AWS region goes down,
we can fail over to the other region and
have as minimum agg as possible.
While we are building a scalable
infrastructure today,
let's not get ahead of ourselves.
[LAUGH] That is tricky and hard,
we're going to deploy scalably to one
region and when the VC money rolls in,
then we will begin to deal
with the idea of multiregion.
We'll pick one region,
I'm gonna pick us-east-1 but again,
I recommend picking whichever
one is closest to you,
us-east-one is northern Virginia,
us-east-2 is Ohio.
West One is I believe Northern California
and West Two is Oregon.
We're currently standing in Minneapolis,
which is kinda like right in the middle,
so take your pick.
In Denver, where I live,
it's a little closer to the west but
I still pick US East One.
Umm, cool.
And that's it,
we've now configured the AWS mobile tool.
We can now use it to initialize new maps.
We can use it to interact with
AWS Mobile Hub in those applications.
You do that once on your
computer you're good to go.
>> Steve Kinney: So the next question is
how do we set that up in a particular
application?
So we have this application, it needs
a backend and some Authentication and
authorization.
So let's give it a shot.
So we are in this grudges repo.
And if you have an application, and you're
like, this application is wonderful.
It needs a backend, we can go ahead and
we type awsmobile in it, right?
And this will initialize a new AWS,
>> Steve Kinney: Backend for
this application.
One thing I'm gonna do real quick is I'm
just gonna make sure that I don't have
an old folder in here.
>> Steve Kinney: It's going to
create two source files and
you already have a sneak peak as
to what those are going to be.
But we'll go ahead and we'll start
a brand new application in this case and
we'll do that AWS mobile.
>> Steve Kinney: init.
>> Steve Kinney: This is gonna
ask you a bunch of questions.
The command line tool is smart enough
to know that we're in a React app and
it's create React app which is
a boilerplate for React applications.
So, it knows how to work with it and
deal with it.
So, we don't have to make
a bunch of decisions.
There's actually a hidden trick if you,
we're going to hit enter,
just say yes to everything but
if you do -y.
It will actually just answer
yes to all the questions and
not bother you with them but
I want to show you what the questions are.
So, I'm not gong to do that but
in the further we might be like, yeah,
just dash Y.
If you find yourself just
slamming the enter key over and
over again, dash Y is probably a friend.
Fun fact, if you use MPM, you MPM in it,
you hit those questions, dash Y or
dash dash yes will do
the same thing there as well.
So what are the questions
that we get asked?
Okay, where is your
project source directory?
And it's taking a lucky guess that it's
in this SRC folder, which if I look,
that is where my source code lives.
Very cool.
All right,
where is your projects distribution
directory that stores build artifacts?
That is a very complicated question that's
basically, when this application is built,
what folder do you build it into?
We have never built this
application before.
Create react out of a box built to a build
directory, which it guessed correctly.
Sometimes there'll be a dist directory or
an out directory depending on
your application's configuration.
If it's in webpack,
then it's usually in your webpack
config what folder you build to.
This case,
build is gonna be the one that we have.
You can see this one is Gitignore but
it is the like build artifacts for
when I compile my web application.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we'll go with yes on that one.
What is the script for building it?
A lot of MPM maps, basically that's
defined in the package J-son.
So if we go in here, you can see Start,
build, test, and eject.
These are not very helpful because create
react app kind of abstracts all of that so
they can change it under the hood.
But if you have your
own React application,
you might actually have very
specific commands in here.
You might be like Web pack, dev server for
start, which is web pack for the build.
And kind of figuring
out all of that stuff.
But in this case, start,
build, test and eject.
For those of you who have never used
create reacta before, eject is like, hey,
all this stuff where you
hide reality from me.
I don't like it.
Right, [LAUGH] and it will,
basically, open the curtain and
show you what's going on under the hood.
But for simplicity's sake, we gonna
hide as much complexity as possible.
Because, again, a lot of this stuff
is complicated to begin with.
All right, cool.
So build works, a test for starting.
It's gonna be MPM run-script start.
Very cool.
What project name you want to use?
It's gonna try to generate
a unique name for you.
This is based on the directory,
the current date and time, which I guess
unless you create two applications
in the same directory at the same,
I think it's down to the second,
is probably going to be unique.
Cool and so you can see, it's creating
a back end for our AWS mobile project.
So we'll give that second.
And it's basically creating
a few folders for us.
You can kind of see it
along the way there.
It's also installing,
if you look right now.
This yarn add aws-amplify,
that's the library we talked about before,
that allows us to talk to AWS Mobile Hub.
It's also going to separately, for
some reason, install aws-amplify-react.
Why it didn't do both at the same time,
I don't know.
It knows you want amplify and then it goes
to check probably for your react app.
I don't know, we can all read the source
code together during our break,
it'll be a lot of fun.
So there it tells you what it did.
So it created a AWS mobile JS folder and
in there a AWS mobile directory and
that is it's own like working
directory for keeping track of stuff.
Your job is not to touch them
Awsmobilejs in a current backend info,
which is basically the last
time they talked Amazon,
what it things your backend
is as you work locally.
Awsmobilejs slash backend,
is the backend code that
actually runs everything for you.
Now, this was generated for you.
But, you're welcome to tweak
it as much as you want.
You need to do custom stuff and change
your back-end this is the back-end code
and when you push it up, you tell Amazon
like hey make these changes to my code and
it's like okay go for it,
and it applies it all.
Right, so both your back-end code and
your front-end code live in the same repo.
Now, this is great because all
your code is together, and
you can configure backend
right next to your front end.
It's also JavaScript has this unique
problem, which is if you have a Ruby
on Rails backend, you know you're working
on the backend if you're writing Ruby.
And you know you're working on the front
end, if you're writing JavaScript or
coffee script,
if you write a reels, but whatever.
With JavaScript, because you can
write JavaScript on the backend and
JavaScript on the font-end, and
now they're very close together,
that's great in a lot of ways.
Cuz you can share code, have a lot re-use,
it's also [LAUGH] slightly confusing,
because sometimes you can lose track if
you're in the backend of your co-base of
the frontend because it's all
JavaScript the whole laid down.
So Double-edged sword awsmobile console
will actually open up the web UI,
we'll take a look at in a second.
Awsmobile run will effectively push
your backend changes to Amazon
and then it will go ahead and do an mpm
start or yarn start on your application.
Mpm and yarn are effectively they're
different package managers and
they're also script runners.
Anytime you see me type yarn start,
you can probably just type mpm start.
It's the same way, same either way,
they're just different package manager,
getting stuff from the PM repository.
Whichever one you're more
comfortable with is totally fine.
The only place where
the syntax is different
is when we go to install new dependencies.
But all the dependency in this
application are already installed,
so Effectively and will correct
this if I've overlooked something.
If you have npm on your system,
you see me type yarn or vice versa,
I'm gonna tell you a secret about me,
I use them both back and forth,
I will use yarn add and
then npm start cuz I'm a terrible person.
So you can use either one.
It's totally fine for our cases.
And then awsmobile publish is
going to take your project and
it's gonna put it on the Internet.
It's gonna deploy it with a single
command, and just basically
take all your back-end, spin it up for
production and get it rocking and rolling.
Cool, so
now we have this kind of back-end code.
Ready to go,
we haven't told our application about it.
But I showed you that slide
before with some features,
I kinda wanna show it to you again.
And what we'll do is
we'll kinda take a look.
And we'll just go type awsmobile,
and I'm gonna type nothing.
Now this by itself doesn't do anything,
it's just gonna show you all the options.
>> Steve Kinney: So
here are the commands you can type.
AWS mobile start, which is start AWS
mobile using one of our starter templates.
If you go to the actual website,
you can see they have a swift starter kit,
they have a bunch of
basically pre-built apps.
Init is the one we ran,
which is kinda turned an existing
project into a AWS mobile project.
Pull says hey Amazon,
tell me what you think my backend is
cuz if you go into the web UI and
change a bunch of stuff well your code
on your computer doesn't know about it.
So you have pull it down effectively
think about get push and get pull.
Speaking of push will basically
send my code up to the cloud.
The cloud is just a nice way
of somebody else's computer.
It's the same thing.
In this case Amazon's many computers.
Delete is like this whole
app was a terrible idea.
Take it all down.
We're closing up shop.
I'm not doing this anymore.
That's effectively what delete does for
you.
Published as we saw before puts it on the
Internet, run will push up your code and
then run it locally.
Console will basically
fire up that AWS web UI,
you can see a bunch of stuff and
modify some stuff there.
Configure is going to change
some of the settings,
like we saw we set up our account before,
we put in our access key and our secret ID
before features is definitely
the one we want to look at next.
And help is effectively useful for
the rest of these,
as we can pull up a different feature.
So it kind of shows you what the Amazon,
the EWS mobile features are.
I want to point out that if,
you know, it's a month from now, or
two months from now.
And this list looks different,
it's because is changing,
like this tool came out in November,
[INAUDIBLE].
I believe it was but
it came out in November of 2017.
So it is about six months old.
And even when I started preparing for
this, AppSync wasn't on that list, right?
So, that is new somewhat recently,
I actually open up a poll request because
in all the doc examples they show you all
the features appsync isn't
on there in the docs yet.
So, that's how quickly some
of the stuff is changing.
But the kind of major things, you can
see how this could be very important for
a building a full stack
React Node application.
We have user-signin,
user-files which is the ability for
the user to upload files publically or
kind of name space them privately.
Cloud api, which is s way to
spin up an api gateway and
then some lambda functionality to figure
out, okay this endpoint is hit, now what?
A database for persisting data which
we're definitely going to need.
Analytics, we're not going to be using it
today, but I told you about it earlier.
It's like basically, you can have all
sorts of different tracking events and
you can actually fire your
own custom tracking events.
Hosting which is how we're
gonna put on the internet.
App sync,
we're not gonna use amplifiers and
I'll tell you the reasons
why in a little bit.
But basically, it's a way of speeding
up the app sync service as well.
Cool.
So we've done an initialization of it.
The only thing we haven't done, we created
a file which we'll look in a second called
AWS exports, that is all of
our configuration, very cool.
And then we have another one,
that directory that we saw earlier, right?
Those things are set up, but
my react application, the code from,
it didn't go in and change my application.
You can be like, yeah,
why write my application for me.
Generally speaking, let's leave
the programming to the programmers.
Right, it's done enough for us.
My react application still doesn't
know About this AWS application.
So what we need to do is basically tell
the React application that
all this AWS stuff exists.
We'll actually take a look at that and
try it out.
Now, we see it made this
AWS exports file but
it's a very helpful warning at
the top saying DO NOT EDIT.
Your mileage may vary.
You can choose to listen to that or not.
I am a rule follower, so I don't edit it.
I can't tell you what
happens if you do edit it.
It probably just blows away your
changes cuz it told you not to edit it.
And then next time you make a change but
this is basically all of the Amazon
configuration that your client-side
app needs to know about.
So, okay, analytics are enabled, our
cognito identity pool, so on and so forth.
What region we're in and what cloud
front domain we're going to use.
The analytics FID, so on and so forth.
Don't touch these.
These are just what your client setup
needs to know to figure out where it
needs to talk to when you do
heroically deploy it to the Internet.
This AWSMobileJS.
This is where your backend lives and
again, it can get sometimes confusing
like this happen to me where it's.
I'll tell you a more embarrassing version
of where this happen to me in a second but
like you think you're changing client side
code, you're changing back end code and
wondering why nothing is working.
The more embarrassing version of this
as somebody that used to teach web
development, is you're
writing documentation and
you have a code sample
in your documentation.
And you keep changing the example
in your documentation and
wondering why your code isn't
changing in your application.
That's the more embarrassing version of
that [LAUGH] because you're changing it in
a marked down file,
not in a JavaScript file.
So this is our current backend and
the only one we're really gonna
touch is this backend directory.
And right now,
there's not really a lot there,
there's just more configuration about
how our backend is actually formed.
As we build this application, we'll
see a little bit more in there but for
starters, this is gonna remain
somewhat simple, as we add features,
it'll get slightly more complex.